HOW TO EDIT THE TRADITION INVENTORY
Politics & Values, Pt. 1


WHAT YOU NEED

A plain-text editor with line numbers. BBEdit and Visual Studio Code are both
free and both fine. Do not edit the file in Word, and note that TextEdit will
try to render index.html as a web page rather than show you the code.

To see a change before publishing it: save the file, then open or reload it in a
browser.

To publish a change: save the file, open GitHub Desktop, write a line saying what
you changed, click Commit to main, then click Push origin. The live site at
sixtraditions.mdhamilton.com updates about a minute later.


THE TWO BLOCKS

Open index.html. Near the top are two blocks of ordinary text,
each introduced by a long comment. Everything you would normally want to change
is in one of them.

  BLOCK 1   The six traditions: names, colors, emoji, epigrams, the two strands
            of each, the paragraph a reader gets, authors, unit dates, criticism.
            The "voices", "unit" and "tension" fields are no longer shown on the
            results page. They are kept in the file in case you want them back.

  BLOCK 2   The twenty-four questions and their answers.

There is also a page showing all six traditions at once, in the order they
appear in Block 1, which is the order of the syllabus. It is built from the same
"tag" and "body" lines, so editing a tradition there updates both places. Readers
reach it from a small link under their result, and it has its own address:
sixtraditions.mdhamilton.com/#traditions

Below the blocks is the opening screen, which is ordinary page text: the title,
the lede, the "How it works" note and the "What this is not" note. Change the
words and leave the angle-bracket tags alone.

Everything after the line marked "Machinery" is working code, including the
results screen and the share card. Send changes to those my way rather than
editing them in place.


EDITING A QUESTION

A question is any line starting with Q:

    Q: What is actually worth conserving?

An answer is any line containing a double colon:

    not being interfered with :: lib 3 [market]

The code says which tradition the answer belongs to. The number is the points.
The word in square brackets is the strand, and it is optional.

Each tradition also has an emoji, set in Block 1 on a line like:

    emoji: 🗽

It appears beside the tradition on the results page and on the share card. To
change one, paste a different emoji there. Nothing else needs to change.

The six codes are:

    chr   Christianity          strands: prophetic, ordered
    rep   republicanism         strands: participatory, institutional
    lib   liberalism            strands: market, social
    blk   Black radicalism      strands: independent, coalitional
    fem   feminism              strands: citizenship, structural
    con   conservatism          strands: prudential, foundational

Rewording a question or an answer needs nothing else changed. To retire a
question, put a # at the front of each of its lines.


FOUR DESIGN RULES, AND WHY THEY MATTER

The first draft of this quiz was measurably biased. These four rules are what
fixed it, and breaking one will bring the problem back.

  1. EVERY ANSWER LOADS EXACTLY ONE TRADITION.
     In the first draft, answers scoring two traditions at once made feminism
     and Black radicalism impossible to separate: a reader answering as a pure
     feminist scored 75 out of 100 on Black radicalism. Now every answer belongs
     to one tradition and the same test returns 39.

  2. ALL SIX TRADITIONS HAVE THE SAME CEILING.
     Each appears in exactly 15 of the 24 questions and owns exactly 16 of the
     96 answers, so the most any one can earn is 45 points. Equal ceilings are
     what make the six scores comparable. If you add an answer for one
     tradition, take one away from it somewhere else.

  3. THE SIX "INSIDE THE TRADITION" QUESTIONS STAY ONE PER TRADITION.
     Six questions put two answers from the same tradition against each other,
     one for each of its strands. There is exactly one of these per tradition.
     Two for the same tradition would give it extra chances to score.

  4. ANSWER ORDER DOES NOT MATTER, BECAUSE THE PAGE SHUFFLES IT.
     Order is randomized for every reader. Write the answers in whatever order
     is convenient.

After any edit, run the checker:

    python3 analyze.py

It reads the file, prints the ceilings, and simulates two hundred thousand
readers. Every tradition should finish first close to 16.7 percent of the time.
If one is at 20 percent, something in rules 1 to 3 has slipped.


IF YOU MAKE A MISTAKE

The page will not go blank. A red box at the top lists every line it could not
read, quotes the line, and says what it expected. Fix, save, reload.

The likely mistakes:

  1. Forgetting the double colon on an answer line.
  2. Writing the score as a word or with no space, as in "chr three" or "chr3".
     It must be a code, a space, then a digit.
  3. A tradition code or a strand name that does not exist. The message lists
     the ones it knows.

Apostrophes, quotation marks, accents and curly quotes are all safe anywhere in
the text.


KEEPING A BACKUP

Before a big round of edits, duplicate the file and rename the copy something
like index_BACKUP.html.
